Lushly shot in gorgeous locations, this film evokes the tone of a fairy tale as it recounts a momentous story of first love. Both realistic and fantastical, sweet and scary, it's skilfully written and directed by Italian duo Fabio Grassadonia and Antonio Piazza. Artfully blurring the lines between a variety of genres, this is the kind of film that gets deep under the skin.
At 13, Luna (Jedlikowska) has a crush on her classmate Giuseppe (Fernandez) and follows him into a deep forest. After some teasing, they begin to find a connection, but their blossoming friendship is interrupted when Giuseppe vanishes. Oddly, no one tries to find him. Luna visits Giuseppe's parents, who react bizarrely. And she heads back into the woods looking for clues. Eventually, she becomes convinced that he has been kidnapped, and she grows increasingly furious that everyone is refusing to talk about it. As months and years pass, she never gives up looking.

Based on an infamous true story, the film is packed with fable-like imagery, including seemingly sentient animals and moody landscapes. Luna's parents (Amato and Timoteo) are like gothic figures from a storybook; schoolteachers and cops are dismissive. Many scenes play out in silence, without the need for dialog, building drama, emotion and quietly nerve-shredding suspense. Eventually the perspective widens to show Giuseppe's side of the story, which involves the police, the mafia and a fierce code of silence.

The story is delicately anchored by Jedlikowska, who creates a spiky, funny, passionate and likeable pre-teen. Her performance is minimalistic but profound, even when events spiral in unnerving directions. Luna is a terrific character, lovelorn and perplexed, tenaciously searching for answers. She's naive, but not as clueless as everyone thinks she is. And Fernandez is excellent in an equally complex role, adeptly navigating some harrowing shifts in tone during Giuseppe's ordeal.

Since it centres on two such innocent young people, the film can hardly help but be deeply wrenching. Their separation makes the larger story of criminality, corruption and complicity that much more intense. The yearning and aching of these characters is so vivid that the film is sometimes difficult to watch. But the storytelling is lovingly crafted, which helps hold the interest even in some slowly paced sections. The sensitive, astute filmmaking not only tells a powerful story, but also makes a devastating comment on Sicilian culture. So where this goes is beautifully haunting.