Our guy steps into the ring as a huge underdog. Sure, he’s got grit and heart and some talent, too, but the fighter in the other corner is bigger, stronger, faster, better, nastier.

Unbeatable.

When the human punching machine tags our guy with rib-cracking body blows and violent shots to the head, it sounds as like someone is swinging a baseball bat at a leather couch. Nobody can withstand this kind of punishment! Nobody, I tell ya!

And yet, and yet …

Creed, Creed, Creed!

Ladies and gentlemen, we just might be watching one of the most historic nights in boxing history.

If you think I’ve given away too much about “Creed II,” I can only surmise you haven’t seen “Creed,” or “Rocky,” or “Rocky II,” or “Rocky III” — and shall we keep on counting?

The decades roll by and the next generation steps up, but the “Rocky” saga continues, and I still find myself rooting for the hero to GET UP and shake it off, and find the champion within himself.

So yes, as Michael B. Jordan’s Adonis Creed experiences triumphs and setbacks, rinse and repeat, in “Creed II,” I couldn’t help but think: I’ve seen this movie before.



The first time I saw it was at the River Oaks Theatre in Calumet City in 1976, when an enthusiastic crowd clapped and cheered and shouted encouragement at the screen as Stallone’s Rocky Balboa, a nobody from the Philadelphia club circuit, stood toe to toe with Carl Weathers’ Apollo Creed, a charismatic legend clearly inspired by Muhammad Ali.

What a great and gritty little movie. To this day, Bill Conti’s score immediately brings a smile to my face.

The first “Rocky” is and always will be my favorite, but the next three installments were thoroughly entertaining — and then we hit a giant pothole with “Rocky V” (1990). Ah, but thanks to “Rocky Balboa” some 16 years later, it appeared as if the franchise would end on a lovely final note.

Not so fast. Thanks to Stallone’s enduring appeal as Rocky, first-rate direction from Ryan Coogler and the movie-star-in-the-making presence of Michael B. Jordan, we went another round with “Creed” (2015), in which we met the son of the late Apollo Creed, who recruited Rocky to be his trainer.